---
title: "Latent Dirichlet Allocation based Diversified Retrieval for E-commerce Search."
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/wsdm_2014
excerpt: "Jun Yu, Sunil Mohan, Duangmanee (Pew) Putthividhya, and Weng-Keen Wong"
date: 2014-01-01
venue: "The 7th ACM International Conference on Web Search and Data Mining Conference (WSDM)"
paperurl:
citation:
---
Diversified retrieval is a very important problem on many e-commerce sites, e.g. eBay and Amazon. Using IR approaches without optimizing for diversity results in a clutter of redundant items that belong to the same products. Most existing product taxonomies are often too noisy, with overlapping structures and non-uniform granularity, to be used directly in diversified retrieval. To address this problem, we propose a Latent Dirichlet Allocation (LDA) based diversified retrieval approach that selects diverse items based on the hidden user intents. Our approach first discovers the hidden user intents of a query using the LDA model, and then ranks the user intents by making trade-offs between their relevance and information novelty. Finally, it chooses the most representative item for each user intent to display. To evaluate the diversity in the search results on e-commerce sites, we propose a new metric, average satisfaction, measuring user satisfaction with the search results. Through our empirical study on eBay, we show that the LDA model discovers meaningful user intents and the LDA-based approach provides significantly higher user satisfaction than the eBay production ranker and three other diversified retrieval approaches.

[Download paper here](https://github.com/zariable/zariable.github.io/blob/master/files/wsdm_2014.pdf)